---
author: 'Joe Lauletta'
date: 2023-06-18
title: 'Ride the bull before it tramples you'
tags: ['tech']

draft: true
---

{{< youtube cYdpOjletnc >}}

# As AI advances, my definition of creativity will have to become more flexible. In a way, this might be the gun to my head that I needed the whole time.

I want to think that the average person is so lazy that GPT may never become a household name no matter how streamlined / forced down our throats it gets, but look at how easily we've adopted every other technology. AI needs to be regulated, but who should be doing the regulation? Who should we trust to decide what "aligned with human values" means? Aren't everyone's values different? Is it more reckless to democratize it or to let a powerful few control it?

Who knows if what you're reading is human or AI-generated, in business, media and new social encounters? There's no fact-checking, only trust.

I sympathize with my graphic artist friends who feel eclipsed by DALL-E. I think they're the most vulnerable because so much of our media diet today is visual. People see pretty colors and don't care where it comes from. Kids won't care about the difference unless it's instilled in them by parents. Or maybe it is a natural preference that'll always prevail.

## Starving FTW

The arts will more than ever be a personal pursuit, a path to flow. If a machine can write the same album you can, you better be writing that album because you enjoy the process.

We might need to create FOR CREATIVES. for the ones with the same temperament as us, who CARE about the difference, who WANT the real thing.

Or people will get jaded with the instant dopamine and mobilize to favor the real thing. Maybe it doesn't matter if a machine can write that album, people will still want to know that it came from a human's unique experiences and emotions.

## It Might Be Chill

The musician and developer in me don't have to be at odds with each other here; they could both benefit from GPT. It's up to me to decide how much I allow it to participate in my creative process.

Maybe people will start to value art again as something separate from disposable entertainment, and we'll be compensated accordingly. All I can do in the meantime is emphasize creating for ME and those who still care and arm myself with a cutting-edge skillset.

We might see the primary mode of communication shift back to phone calls and in-person conversation as the line between real and fake keeps blurring. This is another blessing in disguise, I think.

How are industries responding to this? How is the education system going to adapt? Will schooling make long overdue improvements? Will education finally be personalized and flexible the way I wanted it to be when I was in school?

This could be scissors for so much red tape.

## Creating For Yourself

Whether your art should conform to what's "in" is an age-old question. I guess this is no different. But if it is different, how long will it take for our old-school idea of "original art" to update? Will that shift even need to happen? Our vision doesn't have to change to serve the technology, and we're not forced to use it anyway.

We're just gonna have to ask ourselves more honestly than ever whether we want to create for ourselves or the consumer. Regardless of whatever rifts form among artists and patrons. Regardless of how the popular concept of "good art" changes. We're going to need new tools to measure its societal impact. We're going to need to swallow our pride and accept the inevitable.

## Where To From Here, My Dudes?

It's too soon to say - what I do might become less impressive, or more impressive. I should be flexible with my idea of "originality" and make as much use of AI as possible without doing anything I deeply feel is dishonest. Maybe this is the antidote to my rigid ideas of what's "correct". Maybe I don't have to impose myself as Joelaul the Instrumental Progressive Tech Fusion Metal act. Maybe I'll just be Joe: the guy whose creative voice doesn't need a specific platform. I can focus more on flow and connection and authenticity in the abstract, which is what I want above all anyway.

For those of us who are adamant about creating for a living, it might not take the exact shape we want it to right now. We will have to give a little, and maybe we'll discover more of ourselves in the process.

Accept, adapt, and arm yourself to the teeth - until the enemy proves to be our friend.